hey this is presto Walker and you're
watching mind your decisions did you
know Google can help with your math
homework
here are five Google math tricks you
must try number one use Google's
built-in calculator if you go to google
and type in the word calculator the
result will be a scientific calculator
you can use the keypad to do basic
arithmetic for example 12 times 13 is
equal to 156 but you can also use the
keypad for more complicated calculations
like the sine of PI over 2 radians is
equal to 1 but you're not just limited
to this keypad you can also use natural
language searches for example let's say
you wanted to evaluate sine of 90
degrees you can simply type in that
search and the result will be equal to 1
and Google's calculator will
automatically convert from radians to
degrees you can use natural language for
other things like 10 choose 3 no need to
fumble around with factorials and
division symbols you just get that 10
choose 3 is equal to 120 it's very
convenient to use natural language you
can also use Google calculator to do
more complex calculations for example I
squared is equal to negative 1 we can do
other complex calculations like I to the
power of I we get the principal value of
approximately point 208 and it's really
interesting that this is a real number
value for an imaginary number raised to
an imaginary number I also like to use
Google's calculator to resolve Internet
debates 6/2 parentheses 1 plus 2 will
give you the correct answer of 9 you can
also use Google's calculator to
experiment normally factorials we would
think of only inputting whole number
values but if you put in 0.5 exclamation
point you get the result of about point
eight eight six and this is exactly
equal to the square root of pi divided
by two
if you're curious about why I've made a
separate video on that topic but
Google's calculator will solve many
problems and will also allow you to
experiment and the second trick is to
use Google to graph functions you're not
just limited to this keypad you can also
get visualizations here's the graph of
sine of X you get a two-dimensional plot
and this is pretty standard but we're
not just limited to two dimensional
plots in Google we can type in a graph
which has a three dimensional plot here
is the graph of sine of X plus cosine of
Y we get this beautiful plot that
rotates around and we can actually
understand the shape of this surface
just from a Google search it's
incredible here's another incredible
shape that we can find just in Google
search
you should experiment and you might even
find some heartwarming graphs and that
brings me to the next trick which is a
little more standard but you can use
Google to convert units here's one
example you can convert 1 million in
decimal into binary and Google naturally
will give you the result but you can do
more than just number basis here's an
example of converting physical units
convert 75 Fahrenheit to Celsius and we
get that 75 Fahrenheit is approximately
23 point 9 Celsius and Google even gives
you the formula for how this works
another example of converting units
which I use all the time in cooking is
let's say you wanted to convert one
ounce into grams you'll get the result
of about twenty eight point three grams
so you can convert physical units but
you can also do more interesting things
like convert currency type in convert
one USD to INR and you get that one
United States dollar is about seventy
three point eight Indian rupees you get
a quote of the spot price the fourth
thing you can do with Google is you can
use it to split the bill if you type in
tip calculator you get this nice little
calculation type in the bill amount the
percentage tip you want to give and the
number of people who are dining you get
the calculation of the tip per person
and the total that each person needs to
pay if you're splitting the bill evenly
now there's no excuse for people
splitting the bill fairly the fifth tip
is to use Google to get a random number
sometimes you might just need to flip a
coin type in flip a coin and you'll get
a result of heads or tails if you need
more outcomes you can roll a dice and
Google will give you one of the six
equally likely outcomes but what if you
need more than just six outcomes or what
if you need five or ten you can also
type in generate a random number you can
type in a minimum and a maximum value
and Google will generate a random number
between the minimum and maximum
and if all of this hasn't brought you
tremendous joy you can also use Google
to get the answer to life the universe
and everything so these are a few of my
favorite math tricks what are yours
thanks for watching
these math videos which can be watched
for free on YouTube inspire and build
confidence for people around the world
let's share the beauty of mathematics
with your help we can map the world a
better place please subscribe for free
to get the newest videos watch and share
all of mind your decisions videos Ile me
a puzzle or math topic pressure and mind
your decisions calm and if you so choose
you can check out my books which are
listed in the video description and you
can support me on patreon for exclusive
rewards thanks for watching and thanks
for your support